# KAPsCos 0.1.2

## Quick Links

* Previous version [v0.1.0 and v0.1.1](README.md)
* Next Version [v0.1.3](v0.1.3.md)

## Quick Revision

In version 0.1.0, we simply learned about composer and installed http foundation

In version 0.1.1, we simply created a hello world application.

# Version 0.1.2

## To Do

* Custom code: A place to write some framework specific (not related to project) custm code.

## Custom code

Every framework must have some code to manage few common things. That code will be common to all the projects we will make using KAPsCos. We would not like that code to mix with our project specific code. So lets create a folder `core` to keep such code.

But wait, there is a problem. How class loader will know about our classes in `core` folder? Fortunately thats easy. Open `composer.json` file and add `autoload` after `require`. New `composer.json` file will look a follow:

```javascript
{
    "require": {
        "symfony/http-foundation": "~2.6"
    },
    "autoload": {
        "psr-4": {"Kapscos\\": "core/"}
    }
}
```

`autoload` section tells composer to include given namespace and path for auto loading. Under it, `psr-4` tells we want to use [PSR-4] for auto loading our classes.

`{"Kapscos\\": "core/"}` tells any namespace that start with `Kapscos` should be looked into `core` folder. So an important point to remember, **any thing goes under core folder must have namespace start with `kapscore`.**

Since we changed composer.json autoload, we must install again.

```
composer install
composer update
```

Now lets quickly test it. Create file `core/test.php` and add following code into it.

```php
<?php
namespace Kapscos;

class Test {
    public function getMessage() {
        return "Message from Test.php";
    }
}
```

There is no thing much to explain in code, its returning simple test message. Now lets update index.php to test it. New index.php must be:

```php
<?php
require '../vendor/autoload.php';

use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;
use Kapscos\Test;

$request = Request::createFromGlobals();

$name = $request->query->get('name', 'Guest');
$test = new Test();
$response = new Response('Hello ' . $name . '. Message from test = ' . $test->getMessage());
$response->send();
```

Now running dev.kapscos.com will output

```
Hello Guest. Message from test = Message from Test.php
```

This also prove our autoload settings for core folder is correct.

## Application

Each framework contains few files with its core logic. Let us create `Application.php` file wich we will use to keep core logic of our application.

This file should follow singleton pattern, as we want to create maximum one object of that file for each request.

We will also put `Request` object in that file. This is starting of moving important parts of application in Application.php file.

Below is the first version of Application.php file.

```php
<?php
namespace Kapscos;

use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;

class Application
{
    private static $_instance;
    private $_request;

    private function __construct()
    {
        $this->initialize();
    }

    public static function getApplication()
    {
        if (null === Application::$_instance) {
            Application::$_instance = new Application();
        }

        return Application::$_instance;
    }

    private function initialize()
    {
        $this->makeRequest();
    }

    private function makeRequest()
    {
        $this->_request = Request::createFromGlobals();
    }

    public function getRequest()
    {
        return $this->_request;
    }
}
```

Pleas refer singleton pattern to understand use of static variable `$_instance`, static function `getApplication()` and private constructor.

Constructor calls the `initialize` method. As name suggest, this method will be responsible for initilizing many important objects. However for now, it is only calling `makeRequest` method, which create request object. `getRequest` method simply returns the request object.

Application class is used in index.php as follow:

```php
<?php
require '../vendor/autoload.php';

use Kapscos\Application;
use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Response;

$application = Application::getApplication();
$name = $application->getRequest()->query->get('name', 'Guest');

$response = new Response('Hello ' . $name);
$response->send();
```

Code is straight forward and must be easily understandable.

Since we achieved a milestone here (arguablly, for some developers, whole project might not be a milestone) lets call it as `version 0.1.2`.

[PSR-4]: http://www.php-fig.org/psr/psr-4/
